So, guys, now, having understood the concept of Beijing, now we are in a position to revisit again
and revise the memory allocation to a process, so operating system allocates our free memory to or
from a process in the universe of paid sites.
Now, throughout this course, we have assumed that the size of a page is four zero nine six bytes.
So operating system always allocates or free the memory to or from the process in the units of page
size.
That is, operating system assigns or reclaim back Whelchel memory in the units of four zero nine six
bytes.
So now it seems a little contradictory.
So if your process invokes, for example, mallock 12, that is your process is trying to claim 12 bites
of memory from the operating system.
So the question is that that does operating system allocates 12 plus MB's bytes.
Now, what does MB's recall?
There was something called Matter Block.
Right.
So if you have gone through the section of memory management, you should be able to recall that operating
system allocates you an additional memory called matter block, along with the memory that is requested
using Mellark function.
Right.
So I expect you that you recall the concept of mental block.
So going forward, supposedly a process, request, trial by itself, memory to be used from the operating
system.
So your operating system allocates trial plus matter, block size bytes of memory, or as I said in
this point, that operating system allocates speed, size, bytes of memory to the process.
So we have a question that how much memory is actually assigned to a process.
So the answer is the operating system allocates the precise amount of memory to be used by the process.
But out of these four zero nine six bytes, only 12 plus MB's bytes of the memory is actually allocated
to a process to be used.
So now let us dive deep into this and see what actually happens.
So when you process request 12 bytes of memory using Malot function, operating system allocates four
zero nine six bytes of actual memory to your process.
Right.
So allocation means that the HEAP segment is extended by amount equal to zero nine six bytes.
And as soon as your operating system allocates virtual memory, it also creates a corresponding physical
page.
And out of those four zero nine six bytes of memory, only Clell plus ambitious bytes of memory is assigned
to your process.
So the amount of memory that is remaining is Bates's minus 12 plus MBS.
And this amount of virtual memory is cached by G.
Lipsey Malac implementation.
That is the mallock function actually Estrellas the virtual page that has been assigned to your process
and from that virtual page, only 12 plus MBS bytes of memory the Marlock provides to your process to
be used.
So suppose the diagram on the right hand side of the screen represents a virtual page which has been
just assigned to a process.
So the size of this virtual page is four zero nine six bytes.
Right.
And out of these four zero nine six bytes, 12 plus MB's bytes of virtual memory has been used to satisfy
Mallacoota and request.
And the remaining portion of this virtual page is still available to be used.
So next time, when a process request more memory, it invokes Mallock 20, right.
So Mellark checks that if it has a virtual page which has unassigned virtual addresses to meet the new
request.
If yes, then 12 plus MB's bytes are assigned from remaining portion of the virtual page.
Right.
So suppose the process invokes Malafronte right and you can see that mallock function still keeps track
of this virtual page and finds that it still has a lot of space to be used.
So the Mallott function will again allocate 20 plus MBS bytes of virtual memory to a process.
Right.
And this 20 plus MBS by itself memory will be assigned from the same virtual page.
So the Mallott function will continue to assign memory to a process until this virtual page is completely
exhausted.
So after satisfying my Latrelle and Mallock 20 request by a process memory that is remaining in a virtual
page will be equal to its size minus 12, minus 20 minus to implement best Biton.
What's your page?
Right.
So this is the amount of memory that is still remaining.
And in case virtual pens do not have enough memory left to satisfy that process, request Mallak request
operating system again to assign another brand new virtual page altogether.
So a diagram for a thousand words.
So let's discuss all these points with the help of a diagram in the next slide.